---
description: As there is no way for the Wasm code to access any memory outside its own memory space, the WasmLib interface provides a number of proxies to make accessing data within the ISC sandbox as seamless as possible.
image: /img/wasm_vm/Proxies.png
keywords:
- proxies
- sandbox
- wasm
- value proxies
- container proxies
- array proxies
- map proxies
- explanation
---
# Data Access Proxies

As we cannot call the ISC sandbox functions directly, we need a library to access the
sandbox functionality. There is no way for the Wasm code to access any memory outside
its own memory space. Therefore, any data that is governed by the ISC sandbox has to be
copied in and out of that memory space through well-defined protected channels in the Wasm
runtime system.

To make this whole process as seamless as possible the WasmLib interface uses so-called
`proxies`. Proxies are objects that can perform the underlying data transfers between the
separate systems. Proxies are like data references in that regard, they refer to the
actual objects or values stored on the ISC host, and know how to manipulate them. Proxies
provide a consistent interface to access the smart contract data.

## Value Proxies

The most basic proxies are value proxies. They refer to a single value instance stored on
the ISC host. All values are stored as key/value pairs in container objects on the ISC
host. Value proxies refer to their values through an object id and key id combination that
uniquely defines the value's location in the container object.

## Container Proxies

To keep things as simple and understandable as possible these are limited to only two
different kinds. Array proxies and map proxies. Because we allow nesting of container
objects, these are enough to be able to define quite complex data structures. The
underlying ISC sandbox provides access to its data in the form of simple key/value stores
that can have arbitrary byte data for both key and value. WasmLib provides an abstraction
on top of this one-dimensional storage system that supports nesting of maps and arrays,
very similar to the way objects in YAML or JSON can be nested.

### Map Proxies

A map is a key/value store where the key is one of our supported value types. Maps always
store elements of the same data type, which can be one of our supported value types, a
user-defined data type, or another container object (map or array).

### Array Proxies

An array can be seen as a special kind of map. Its key is an integer value with the
property that keys always form a sequence from 0 to N-1 for an array with N elements.
Arrays always store elements of the same data type, which can be one of our supported
value types, a user-defined type, or a map. We do not support arrays of arrays at this
moment.

## Example That Shows the Use of Proxies in WasmLib

[![Proxies in WasmLib](/img/wasm_vm/Proxies.png)](/img/wasm_vm/Proxies.png)

In this example we have a single map in the ISC state storage that contains a number of
key/value combinations (Key 1 through Key 4). One of them (Key 4)
refers to an array, which in turn contains indexed values stored at indexes 0 through N.
Notice how the WasmLib proxies mirror these exactly. There is a container proxy for every
container, and a value proxy for each value stored. Each container proxy can uniquely
identify the container it references through the container's id. Each value proxy uniquely
identifies the value it references through the container id of the container it is in, and
the key id (or index) that correlates to its position in the container.

Note that despite the one-to-one correspondence in the example it is not necessary for a
smart contract function to define a proxy for every value or container in the ISC state
storage. In practice a function will only define proxies to data that it actually needs to
access.

In the next section we will go into more detail about the supported [data types](types.mdx).
